	It was hypothesized that in times of financial crisis, people who have been married for a
shorter amount of time are more likely to get divorced. In order to test this out, data about
unemployment rates between 1980 and 2010 (from https://data.bls.gov/pdq/SurveyOutputServlet)
and about divorces in Texas (from http://www.dshs.texas.gov/vs/marriagedivorce/mdindx.shtm,
which is stored in /data/raw) during those same years were used.

      The rate of unemployment was calculated by adding up all the per-month data in each year,
via awk. Next, using python, a few steps were taken in order to compute the average marriage length
for marriages that ended due to divorce. First, the date that a couple got married was subtracted
from the date of their divorce in order to find the length of that couple’s marriage. Then, in
another python file, the total number of length of marriages for one year was divided by the amount
of divorces that happened in that same year. This average length of marriage file was then combined
with the unemployment rate file, using spark, in order to get ready for plotting the graph. It put
together all of the information for each year. Using matplotlib, the data was put into a scatter plot.
The x-axis represents the unemployment rate, and the y-axis represents the average length of marriages.

    Looking at the scatter plot, there is a very high negative correlation between divorce and unemployment
rates. When the unemployment rate is high, couples who have not been married for so long, are more likely
to get divorced. In other words, people who have been married longer, are less likely to divorce during
harder financial times because their marriage is more stable and doesn’t simply end due to money since
they already had more time to develop their relationship.

     From 1980 until 1986, the average marriage length for those who divorced during that time is pretty
stable, even though the unemployment rates change drastically. This may be due to the two short
recessions that occurred during the early 1980’s. Since each recession was so short, a possible
explanation for why the marriage lengths stayed stable even during such a time of financial crisis
could be that in order for a change to affect marriages, the financial crisis needs to be for a longer
period of time.

       However, even with these outliers, there is still a highly strong negative correlation (from
outside calculation, it was seen that it was -.42) throughout the 30 year range. (Without the outliers,
the correlation was .50.) It should also be noted that this graph cannot be taken as evidence for the
hypothesis on its own because over time people have tended to stay married for longer before divorcing.
This can be seen when only graphing the years and marriage lengths accordingly (without the unemployment
rate) - the correlation for marriage versus year is .98, which is almost a perfect correlation. 

      As seen from the graph and above discussion, there is a very big negative correlation between
unemployment rates and the average length of marriages that end in divorce. Meaning, as the unemployment
rate goes up, the average length of marriages goes down. People who have been married for a shorter amount
of time are more likely to divorce in times of financial crisis.
